[{"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffT Ebesu", "B Shen", "Y Fang"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 24, "title": "Collaborative Memory Network for Recommendation Systems", "year": 2018, "keywords": ["deep learning", "memory networks", "collaborative filtering"], "journal": "SIGIR", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Recommendation systems play a vital role to keep users engaged with personalized content in modern online platforms. Deep learning has revolutionized many research fields and there is a recent surge of interest in existing methods compose deep learning architectures with applying it to collaborative filtering (CF). However, the latent factor model ignoring a major class of CF models, neighbor hood or memory-based Memory Networks (CMN), a deep architecture to unify the two approaches. We propose Collaborative classes of CF models capitalizing on the strengths of the global structure of latent factor model and local neighborhood-based structure in a nonlinear fashion. Motivated by the success of Memory Networks, we fuse a memory component and neural attention mechanism as the neighborhood component. The associative addressing scheme with the user and item memories in the memory module encodes complex user-item relations coupled with the neural attention mechanism to learn a user-item specific neighborhood. Finally, the output module jointly exploits the neighborhood with the user and item memories to produce the ranking score. Stacking multiple memory modules together yield deeper architectures capturing increasingly complex user-item relations. Furthermore, we show strong connections between CMN components, memory networks and the three classes of CF models. Comprehensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of CMN on three public datasets outperforming competitive baselines. Qualitative visualization of the attention weights provide insight into the model\u2019s recommendation process and suggest the presence of higher order interactions.", "reference_count": 41, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Xiaopeng Li", "James She"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 98, "title": "Collaborative variational autoencoder for recommender systems.", "year": 2017, "keywords": ["Recommender systems", "deep learning", "generative models", "Bayesian", "variational inference", "autoencoder"], "journal": "SIGKDD", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Modern recommender systems usually employ collaborative fltering with rating information to recommend items to users due to its successful performance. However, because of the drawbacks of collaborative-based methods such as sparsity, cold start, etc., moreattention has been drawn to hybrid methods that consider both the rating and content information. Most of the previous works in this area cannot learn a good representation from content for recommendation task or consider only text modality of the content, thus their methods are very limited in current multimedia scenario. This paper proposes a Bayesian generative model called collaborative variational autoencoder (CVAE) that considers both rating and content for recommendation in multimedia scenario. The model learns deep latent representations from content data in an unsupervised manner and also learns implicit relationships between items and users from both content and rating. Unlike previous works with denoising criteria, the proposed CVAE learns a latent distribution for content in latent space instead of observation space through an inference network and can be easily extended to other multimedia modalities other than text. Experiments show that CVAE is able to significantly outperform the state-of-the-art recommendation methods with more robust performance.", "reference_count": 31, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["HaoWang", "NaiyanWang", "Dit-Yan Yeung"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 709, "title": "Collaborative Deep Learning for Recommender Systems", "year": 2015, "keywords": ["Recommender systems", "Deep learning", "Topic model", "Text mining"], "journal": "SIGKDD", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Collaborative filtering (CF) is a successful approach commonly used by many recommender systems. Conventional CF-based methods use the ratings given to items by users as the sole source of information for learning to make recommendation. However, the ratings are often very sparse in many applications, causing CF-based methods to degrade significantly in their recommendation performance. To address this sparsity problem, auxiliary information such as item content information may be utilized. Collaborative topic regression (CTR) is an appealing recent method taking this approach which tightly couples the two components that learn from two different sources of information. Nevertheless, the latent representation learned by CTR may not be very effective when the auxiliary information is very sparse. To address this problem, we generalize recent advances in deep learning from i.i.d. input to non-i.i.d. (CF-based) input and propose in this paper a hierarchical Bayesian model called collaborative deep learning (CDL), which jointly performs deep representation learning for the content information and collaborative filtering for the ratings (feedback) matrix. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets from different domains show that CDL can significantly advance the state of the art.", "reference_count": 41, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Dawen Liang", "Rahul G Krishnan", "Matthew D Hoffman", "Tony Jebara"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 90, "title": "Variational Autoencoders for Collaborative Filtering", "year": 2018, "keywords": ["Recommender systems", "collaborative filtering", "implicit feedback", "variational autoencoder", "Bayesian models"], "journal": "WWW", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "We extend variational autoencoders (VAES) to collaborative filtering for implicit feedback. This non-linear probabilistic model enables us to go beyond the limited modeling capacity of linear factor models which still largely dominate collaborative filtering research. We introduce a generative model with multinomial likelihood and use Bayesian inference for parameter estimation. Despite widespread use in language modeling and economics, the multinomial likelihood receives less attention in the recommender systems literature. We introduce a different regularization parameter for the learning objective, which proves to be crucial for achieving competitive performance. Remarkably, there is an efficient way to tune the parameter using annealing. The resulting model and learning algorithm has information-theoretic connections to maximum entropy discrimination and the information bottleneck principle. Empirically, we show that the proposed approach significantly outperforms several state-of-the-art baselines, including two recently-proposed neural network approaches, on several real-world datasets. We also provide extended experiments comparing the multinomial likelihood with other commonly used likelihood functions in the latent factor collaborative filtering literature and show favorable results. Finally, we identify the pros and cons of employing a principled Bayesian inference approach and characterize settings where it provides the most significant improvements.", "reference_count": 54, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Rex Ying", "Ruining He", "Kaifeng Chen", "Pong Eksombatchai", "William L. Hamilton", "Jure Leskovec"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 134, "title": "Graph Convolutional Neural Networks for Web-Scale Recommender Systems", "year": 2018, "keywords": [""], "journal": "SIGKDD", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Recent advancements in deep neural networks for graph-structured data have led to state-of-the-art performance on recommender system benchmarks. However, making these methods practical and scalable to web-scale recommendation tasks with billions of items and hundreds of millions of users remains a challenge. Here we describe a large-scale deep recommendation engine that we developed and deployed at Pinterest. We develop a data-efficient Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) algorithm PinSage, which combines efficient random walks and graph convolutions to generate embeddings of nodes (i.e., items) that incorporate both graph structure as well as node feature information. Compared to prior GCN approaches, we develop a novel method based on highly efficient random walks to structure the convolutions and design a novel training strategy that relies on harder-and-harder training examples to improve robustness and convergence of the model. We also develop an efficient MapReduce model inference algorithm to generate embeddings using a trained model. We deploy PinSage at Pinterest and train it on 7.5 billion examples on a graph with 3 billion nodes representing pins and boards, and 18 billion edges. According to offline metrics, user studies and A/B tests, PinSage generates higher-quality recommendations than comparable deep learning and graph-based alternatives. To our knowledge, this is the largest application of deep graph embeddings to date and paves the way for a new generation of web-scale recommender systems based on graph convolutional architectures.", "reference_count": 31, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Federico Monti", "Michael M. Bronstein", "Xavier Bresson"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 84, "title": "Geometric Matrix Completion with Recurrent Multi-Graph Neural Networks", "year": 2017, "keywords": [""], "journal": "NIPS", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Matrix completion models are among the most common formulations of recommender systems. Recent works have showed a boost of performance of these techniques when introducing the pairwise relationships between users/items in the form of graphs, and imposing smoothness priors on these graphs. However, such techniques do not fully exploit the local stationarity structures of user/item graphs, and the number of parameters to learn is linear w.r.t. the number of users and items. We propose a novel approach to overcome these limitations by using geometric deep learning on graphs. Our matrix completion architecture combines graph convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks to learn meaningful statistical graph-structured patterns and the non-linear diffusion process that generates the known ratings. This neural network system requires a constant number of parameters independent of the matrix size. We apply our method on both synthetic and real datasets, showing that it outperforms state-of-the-art techniques.", "reference_count": 24, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Jiani Zhang", "Xingjian Shi", "Shenglin Zhao", "Irwin King"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 0, "title": "STAR-GCN: Stacked and Reconstructed Graph Convolutional Networks for Recommender Systems", "year": 2019, "keywords": [""], "journal": "IJCAI", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "We propose a new STAcked and Reconstructed Graph Convolutional Networks (STAR-GCN) architecture to learn node representations for boosting the performance in recommender systems, especially in the cold start scenario. STAR-GCN employs a stack of GCN encoder-decoders combined with intermediate supervision to improve the final prediction performance. Unlike the graph convolutional matrix completion model with one-hot encoding node inputs, our STAR-GCN learns low-dimensional user and item latent factors as the input to restrain the model space complexity. Moreover, our STAR-GCN can produce node embeddings for new nodes by reconstructing masked input node embeddings, which essentially tackles the cold start problem. Furthermore, we discover a label leakage issue when training GCN-based models for link prediction tasks and propose a training strategy to avoid the issue. Empirical results on multiple rating prediction benchmarks demonstrate our model achieves state-of-the-art performance in four out of five real-world datasets and significant improvements in predicting ratings in the cold start scenario.", "reference_count": 28, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Haoyu Wang", "Defu Lian", "Yong Ge"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 0, "title": "Binarized Collaborative Filtering with Distilling Graph Convolutional Networks", "year": 2019, "keywords": [""], "journal": "IJCAI", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "The efficiency of top-K item recommendation based on implicit feedback are vital to recommender systems in real world, but it is very challenging due to the lack of negative samples and the large number of candidate items. To address the challenges, we firstly introduce an improved Graph Convolutional Network~(GCN) model with high-order feature interaction considered. Then we distill the ranking information derived from GCN into binarized collaborative filtering, which makes use of binary representation to improve the efficiency of online recommendation. However, binary codes are not only hard to be optimized but also likely to incur the loss of information during the training processing. Therefore, we propose a novel framework to convert the binary constrained optimization problem into an equivalent continuous optimization problem with a stochastic penalty. The binarized collaborative filtering model is then easily optimized by many popular solvers like SGD and Adam. The proposed algorithm is finally evaluated on three real-world datasets and shown the superiority to the competing baselines.", "reference_count": 32, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffChengfeng Xu", "Pengpeng Zhao", "Yanchi Liu", "Victor S. Sheng", "Jiajie Xu", "Fuzhen Zhuang", "Junhua Fang", "Xiaofang Zhou"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 0, "title": "Graph Contextualized Self-Attention Network for Session-based Recommendation", "year": 2019, "keywords": [""], "journal": "IJCAI", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Session-based recommendation, which aims to predict the user\u2019s immediate next action based on anonymous sessions, is a key task in many online services (e.g., e-commerce, media streaming). Recently, Self-Attention Network (SAN) has achieved significant success in various sequence modeling tasks without using either recurrent or convolutional network. However, SAN lacks local dependencies that exist over adjacent items and limits its capacity for learning contextualized representations of items in sequences. In this paper, we propose a graph contextualized self-attention model (GC-SAN), which utilizes both graph neural network and self-attention mechanism, for sessionbased recommendation. In GC-SAN, we dynamically construct a graph structure for session sequences and capture rich local dependencies via graph neural network (GNN). Then each session learns long-range dependencies by applying the self-attention mechanism. Finally, each session is represented as a linear combination of the global preference and the current interest of that session. Extensive experiments on two real-world datasets show that GC-SAN outperforms state-of-the-art methods consistently.", "reference_count": 26, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Shu Wu", "Yuyuan Tang", "Yanqiao Zhu", "Liang Wang", "Xing Xie", "Tieniu Tan"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 21, "title": "Session-based Recommendation with Graph Neural Networks", "year": 2019, "keywords": [""], "journal": "AAAI", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "The problem of session-based recommendation aims to predict user actions based on anonymous sessions. Previous methods model a session as a sequence and estimate user representations besides item representations to make recommendations. Though achieved promising results, they are insufficient to obtain accurate user vectors in sessions and neglect complex transitions of items. To obtain accurate item embedding and take complex transitions of items into account, we propose a novel method, i.e. Session-based Recommendation with Graph Neural Networks, SR-GNN for brevity. In the proposed method, session sequences are modeled as graphstructured data. Based on the session graph, GNN can capture complex transitions of items, which are difficult to be revealed by previous conventional sequential methods. Each session is then represented as the composition of the global preference and the current interest of that session using an attention network. Extensive experiments conducted on two real datasets show that SR-GNN evidently outperforms the state-of-the-art session-based recommendation methods consistently.", "reference_count": 34, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Jin Shang", "Mingxuan Sun"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 1, "title": "Geometric Hawkes Processes with Graph Convolutional Recurrent Neural Networks", "year": 2019, "keywords": [""], "journal": "AAAI", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Hawkes processes are popular for modeling correlated temporal sequences that exhibit mutual-excitation properties. Existing approaches such as feature-enriched processes or variations of Multivariate Hawkes processes either fail to describe the exact mutual influence between sequences or become computational inhibitive in most real-world applications involving large dimensions. Incorporating additional geometric structure in the form of graphs into Hawkes processes is an effective and efficient way for improving model prediction accuracy. In this paper, we propose the Geometric Hawkes Process (GHP) model to better correlate individual processes, by integrating Hawkes processes and a graph convolutional recurrent neural network. The deep network structure is computational efficient since it requires constant parameters that are independent of the graph size. The experiment results on real-world data show that our framework outperforms recent state-of-art methods.", "reference_count": 34, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Hongwei Wang", "Fuzheng Zhang", "Mengdi Zhang", "Jure Leskovec", "Miao Zhao", "Wenjie Li", "Zhongyuan Wang."], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 0, "title": "Knowledge-aware Graph Neural Networks with Label Smoothness Regularization for Recommender Systems", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["Knowledge-aware recommendation", "graph neural networks", "label propagation"], "journal": "SIGKDD", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Knowledge graphs capture structured information and relations between a set of entities or items. As such knowledge graphs represent an attractive source of information that could help improve recommender systems. However, existing approaches in this domain rely on manual feature engineering and do not allow for an end-to-end training. Here we propose Knowledge-aware Graph Neural Networks with Label Smoothness regularization (KGNN-LS) to provide better recommendations. Conceptually, our approach computes user-specific item embeddings by first applying a trainable function that identifies important knowledge graph relationships for a given user. This way we transform the knowledge graph into a user-specific weighted graph and then apply a graph neural network to compute personalized item embeddings. To provide better inductive bias, we rely on label smoothness assumption, which posits that adjacent items in the knowledge graph are likely to have similar user relevance labels/scores. Label smoothness provides regularization over the edge weights and we prove that it is equivalent to a label propagation scheme on a graph. We also develop an efficient implementation that shows strong scalability with respect to the knowledge graph size. Experiments on four datasets show that our method outperforms state of the art baselines. KGNN-LS also achieves strong performance in cold-start scenarios where user-item interactions are sparse.", "reference_count": 39, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffYu Gong", "Yu Zhu", "Lu Duan", "Qingwen Liu", "Ziyu Guan", "Fei Sun", "Wenwu Ou", "Kenny Q. Zhu."], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 1, "title": "Exact-K Recommendation via Maximal Clique Optimization", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["recommender system", "exact-K recommendation", "learning-to-rank", "reinforcement learning", "encoder-decoder"], "journal": "SIGKDD", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "This paper targets to a novel but practical recommendation problem named exact-K recommendation. It is different from traditional top-K recommendation, as it focuses more on (constrained) combinatorial optimization which will optimize to recommend a whole set of K items called card, rather than ranking optimization which assumes that \u201cbetter\u201d items should be put into top positions. Thus we take the first step to give a formal problem definition, and innovatively reduce it to Maximum Clique Optimization based on graph. To tackle this specific combinatorial optimization problem which is NP-hard, we propose Graph Attention Networks (GAttN) with a Multi-head Self-attention encoder and a decoder with attention mechanism. It can end-to-end learn the joint distribution of the K items and generate an optimal card rather than rank individual items by prediction scores. Then we propose Reinforcement Learning from Demonstrations (RLfD) which combines the advantages in behavior cloning and reinforcement learning, making it sufficientand-efficient to train the model. Extensive experiments on three datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed GAttN with RLfD method, it outperforms several strong baselines with a relative improvement of 7.7% and 4.7% on average in Precision and Hit Ratio respectively, and achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance for the exact-K recommendation problem.", "reference_count": 34, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffXiang Wang", "Xiangnan He", "Yixin Cao", "Meng Liu", "Tat-Seng Chua."], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 8, "title": "KGAT: Knowledge Graph Attention Network for Recommendation", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["Collaborative Filtering", "Recommendation", "Graph Neural Network", "Higher-order Connectivity", "Embedding Propagation", "Knowledge Graph"], "journal": "SIGKDD", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "To provide more accurate, diverse, and explainable recommendation, it is compulsory to go beyond modeling user-item interactions and take side information into account. Traditional methods like factorization machine (FM) cast it as a supervised learning problem, which assumes each interaction as an independent instance with side information encoded. Due to the overlook of the relations among instances or items (e.g., the director of a movie is also an actor of another movie), these methods are insufficient to distill the collaborative signal from the collective behaviors of users. In this work, we investigate the utility of knowledge graph (KG), which breaks down the independent interaction assumption by linking items with their attributes. We argue that in such a hybrid structure of KG and user-item graph, high-order relations \u2014 which connect two items with one or multiple linked attributes \u2014 are an essential factor for successful recommendation. We propose a new method named Knowledge Graph Attention Network (KGAT) which explicitly models the high-order connectivities in KG in an end-to-end fashion. It recursively propagates the embeddings from a node\u2019s neighbors (which can be users, items, or attributes) to refine the node\u2019s embedding, and employs an attention mechanism to discriminate the importance of the neighbors. Our KGAT is conceptually advantageous to existing KG-based recommendation methods, which either exploit highorder relations by extracting paths or implicitly modeling them with regularization. Empirical results on three public benchmarks show that KGAT significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods like Neural FM [11] and RippleNet [29]. Further studies verify the efficacy of embedding propagation for high-order relation modeling and the interpretability benefits brought by the attention mechanism. We release the codes and datasets at https://github. com/xiangwang1223/knowledge_graph_attention_network.", "reference_count": 41, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffHongwei Wang", "Miao Zhao", "Xing Xie", "Wenjie Li", "Minyi Guo."], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 6, "title": "Knowledge Graph Convolutional Networks for Recommender Systems", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["Recommender systems", "Knowledge graph", "Graph convolutional networks"], "journal": "WWW", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "To alleviate sparsity and cold start problem of collaborative filtering based recommender systems, researchers and engineers usually collect attributes of users and items, and design delicate algorithms to exploit these additional information. In general, the attributes are not isolated but connected with each other, which forms a knowledge graph (KG). In this paper, we propose Knowledge Graph Convolutional Networks (KGCN), an end-to-end framework that captures inter-item relatedness effectively by mining their associated attributes on the KG. To automatically discover both high-order structure information and semantic information of the KG, we sample from the neighbors for each entity in the KG as their receptive field, then combine neighborhood information with bias when calculating the representation of a given entity. The receptive field can be extended to multiple hops away to model high-order proximity information and capture users\u2019 potential long-distance interests. Moreover, we implement the proposed KGCN in a minibatch fashion, which enables our model to operate on large datasets and KGs. We apply the proposed model to three datasets about movie, book, and music recommendation, and experiment results demonstrate that our approach outperforms strong recommender baselines", "reference_count": 26, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffQitian Wu", "Hengrui Zhang", "Xiaofeng Gao", "Peng He", "Paul Weng", "Han Gao", "Guihai Chen."], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 0, "title": "Dual Graph Attention Networks for Deep Latent Representation of Multifaceted Social Effects in Recommender Systems", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["Social Recommendation", "Graph Attention Network", "Social Effect", "RepresentationLearning", "Contextual Multi-Armed Bandit"], "journal": "WWW", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Social recommendation leverages social information to solve data sparsity and cold-start problems in traditional collaborative filtering methods. However, most existing models assume that social effects from friend users are static and under the forms of constant weights or fixed constraints. To relax this strong assumption, in this paper, we propose dual graph attention networks to collaboratively learn representations for two-fold social effects, where one is modeled by a user-specific attention weight and the other is modeled by a dynamic and context-aware attention weight. We also extend the social effects in user domain to item domain, so that information from related items can be leveraged to further alleviate the data sparsity problem. Furthermore, considering that different social effects in two domains could interact with each other and jointly influence users\u2019 preferences for items, we propose a new policy-based fusion strategy based on contextual multi-armed bandit to weigh interactions of various social effects. Experiments on one benchmark dataset and a commercial dataset verify the efficacy of the key components in our model. The results show that our model achieves great improvement for recommendation accuracy compared with other state-of-the-art social recommendation methods.", "reference_count": 45, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Wenqi Fan", "Yao Ma", "Qing Li", "Yuan He", "Eric Zhao", "Jiliang Tang", "Dawei Yin"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 8, "title": "Graph Neural Networks for Social Recommendation", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["Social Recommendation", "Graph Neural Networks", "Recommender Systems", "Social Network", "Neural Networks"], "journal": "WWW", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "In recent years, Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), which can naturally integrate node information and topological structure, have been demonstrated to be powerful in learning on graph data. These advantages of GNNs provide great potential to advance social recommendation since data in social recommender systems can be represented as user-user social graph and user-item graph; and learning latent factors of users and items is the key. However, building social recommender systems based on GNNs faces challenges. For example, the user-item graph encodes both interactions and their associated opinions; social relations have heterogeneous strengths; users involve in two graphs (e.g., the useruser social graph and the user-item graph). To address the three aforementioned challenges simultaneously, in this paper, we present a novel graph neural network framework (GraphRec) for social recommendations. In particular, we provide a principled approach to jointly capture interactions and opinions in the user-item graph and propose the framework GraphRec, which coherently models two graphs and heterogeneous strengths. Extensive experiments on two real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework GraphRec.", "reference_count": 42, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffLe Wu", "Peijie Sun", "Yanjie Fu", "Richang Hong", "Xiting Wang", "Meng Wang"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 1, "title": "A Neural Influence Diffusion Model for Social Recommendation", "year": 2019, "keywords": [""], "journal": "SIGIR", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Precise user and item embedding learning is the key to building a successful recommender system. Traditionally, Collaborative Filtering(CF) provides a way to learn user and item embeddings from the user-item interaction history. However, the performance is limited due to the sparseness of user behavior data. With the emergence of online social networks, social recommender systems have been proposed to utilize each user's local neighbors' preferences to alleviate the data sparsity for better user embedding modeling. We argue that, for each user of a social platform, her potential embedding is influenced by her trusted users. As social influence recursively propagates and diffuses in the social network, each user's interests change in the recursive process. Nevertheless, the current social recommendation models simply developed static models by leveraging the local neighbors of each user without simulating the recursive diffusion in the global social network, leading to suboptimal recommendation performance. In this paper, we propose a deep influence propagation model to stimulate how users are influenced by the recursive social diffusion process for social recommendation. For each user, the diffusion process starts with an initial embedding that fuses the related features and a free user latent vector that captures the latent behavior preference. The key idea of our proposed model is that we design a layer-wise influence propagation structure to model how users' latent embeddings evolve as the social diffusion process continues. We further show that our proposed model is general and could be applied when the user~(item) attributes or the social network structure is not available. Finally, extensive experimental results on two real-world datasets clearly show the effectiveness of our proposed model, with more than 13% performance improvements over the best baselines.", "reference_count": 44, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffWeiping Song", "Zhiping Xiao", "Yifan Wang", "Laurent Charlin", "Ming Zhang", "Jian Tang"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 4, "title": "Session-based Social Recommendation via Dynamic Graph Attention Networks", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["Dynamic interests", "social network", "graph convolutional networks", "session-based recommendation"], "journal": "WSDM", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Online communities such as Facebook and Twitter are enormously popular and have become an essential part of the daily life of many of their users. Through these platforms, users can discover and create information that others will then consume. In that context, recommending relevant information to users becomes critical for viability. However, recommendation in online communities is a challenging problem: 1) users\u2019 interests are dynamic, and 2) users are influenced by their friends. Moreover, the influencers may be context-dependent. That is, different friends may be relied upon for different topics. Modeling both signals is therefore essential for recommendations. We propose a recommender system for online communities based on a dynamic-graph-attention neural network. We model dynamic user behaviors with a recurrent neural network, and contextdependent social influence with a graph-attention neural network, which dynamically infers the influencers based on users\u2019 current interests. The whole model can be efficiently fit on large-scale data. Experimental results on several real-world data sets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach over several competitive baselines including state-of-the-art models. The source code and data are available at https://github.com/DeepGraphLearning/ RecommenderSystems.", "reference_count": 41, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffXiang Wang", "Xiangnan He", "Meng Wang", "Fuli Feng", "Tat-Seng Chua"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 12, "title": "Neural Graph Collaborative Filtering", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["Collaborative Filtering", "Recommendation", "High-order Connectivity", "Embedding Propagation", "Graph Neural Network"], "journal": "SIGIR", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Learning vector representations (aka. embeddings) of users and items lies at the core of modern recommender systems. Ranging from early matrix factorization to recently emerged deep learning based methods, In this work, we propose to integrate the user-item interactions --- more specifically the bipartite graph structure --- into the embedding process. We develop a new recommendation framework Neural Graph Collaborative Filtering (NGCF), which exploits the user-item graph structure by propagating embeddings on it. This leads to the expressive modeling of high-order connectivity in user-item graph, effectively injecting the collaborative signal into the embedding process in an explicit manner. We conduct extensive experiments on three public benchmarks, demonstrating significant improvements over several state-of-the-art models like HOP-Rec and Collaborative Memory Network. Further analysis verifies the importance of embedding propagation for learning better user and item representations, justifying the rationality and effectiveness of NGCF. Codes are available at\u00a0this https URL. existing efforts typically obtain a user's (or an item's) embedding by mapping from pre-existing features that describe the user (or the item), such as ID and attributes. We argue that an inherent drawback of such methods is that, the collaborative signal, which is latent in user-item interactions, is not encoded in the embedding process. As such, the resultant embeddings may not be sufficient to capture the collaborative filtering effect.", "reference_count": 42, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Huan Zhao", "Quanming Yao", "Jianda Li", "Yangqiu Song", "Dik Lun Lee"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 72, "title": "Meta-Graph Based Recommendation Fusion over Heterogeneous Information Networks", "year": 2017, "keywords": ["Recommendation system", "Collaborative filtering", "Heterogeneous information networks", "Factorization machine"], "journal": "Proceedings of the 23rd ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Heterogeneous Information Network (HIN) is a natural and general representation of data in modern large commercial recommender systems which involve heterogeneous types of data. HIN based recommenders face two problems: how to represent the high-level semantics of recommendations and how to fuse the heterogeneous information to make recommendations. In this paper, we solve the two problems by first introducing the concept of meta-graph to HINbased recommendation, and then solving the information fusion problem with a \"matrix factorization (MF) + factorization machine (FM)\" approach. For the similarities generated by each meta-graph, we perform standard MF to generate latent features for both users and items. With different meta-graph based features, we propose to use FM with Group lasso (FMG) to automatically learn from the observed ratings to effectively select useful meta-graph based features. Experimental results on two real-world datasets, Amazon and Yelp, show the effectiveness of our approach compared to state-of-the-art FM and other HIN-based recommendation algorithms.", "reference_count": 43, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Yanru Qu", "Ting Bai", "Weinan Zhang", "Jianyun Nie", "Jian Tang"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 0, "title": "An End-to-End Neighborhood-based Interaction Model for Knowledge-enhanced Recommendation", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["Knowledge Graph", "Knowledge-enhanced Recommendation", "Neighborhood-based Interaction"], "journal": "Proceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "This paper studies graph-based recommendation, where an interaction graph is constructed built from historical records and is leveraged to alleviate data sparsity and cold start problems. We reveal an early summarization problem in existing graph-based models, and propose Neighborhood Interaction (NI) model to capture each neighbor pair (between user-side and item-side) distinctively. NI model is more expressive and can capture more complicated structural patterns behind user-item interactions. To further enrich node connectivity and utilize high-order structural information, we incorporate extra knowledge graphs (KGs) and adopt graph neural networks (GNNs) in NI, called Knowledge-enhanced Neighborhood Interaction (KNI). Compared with the state-of-the-art recommendation methods, e.g., feature-based, meta path-based, and KG-based models, our KNI achieves superior performance in click-through rate prediction (1.1%-8.4% absolute AUC improvements) and outperforms by a wide margin in top-N recommendation on 4 real world datasets.", "reference_count": 32, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Binbin Hu", "Chuan Shi", "Wayne Xin Zhao", "Tianchi Yang"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 2, "title": "Local and Global Information Fusion for Top-N Recommendation in Heterogeneous Information Network", "year": 2018, "keywords": ["Heterogeneous Information Network", "Recommender System", "Local and Global Information", "Attention Mechanism"], "journal": "Proceedings of the 27th ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Since heterogeneous information network (HIN) is able to integrate complex information and contain rich semantics, there is a surge of HIN based recommendation in recent years. Although existing methods have achieved performance improvement to some extent, they still face the following problems: how to extensively exploit and comprehensively explore the local and global information in HIN for recommendation. To address these issues, we propose a unified model LGRec to fuse local and global information for top-N recommendation in HIN. We firstly model most informative local neighbor information for users and items respectively with a co-attention mechanism. In addition, our model learns effective relation representations between users and items to capture rich information in HIN by optimizing a multi-label classification problem. Finally, we combine the two parts into an unified model for top-N recommendation. Extensive experiments on four real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model.", "reference_count": 9, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Binbin Hu", "Chuan Shi", "Wayne Xin Zhao", "Philip S. Yu"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 46, "title": "Leveraging Meta-path based Context for Top-N Recommendation with A Neural Co-Attention Model", "year": 2018, "keywords": ["Recommender System", "Heterogeneous Information Network", "Deep Learning", "Attention Mechanism"], "journal": "Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Heterogeneous information network (HIN) has been widely adopted in recommender systems due to its excellence in modeling complex context information. Although existing HIN based recommendation methods have achieved performance improvement to some extent, they have two major shortcomings. First, these models seldom learn an explicit representation for path or meta-path in the recommendation task. Second, they do not consider the mutual effect between the meta-path and the involved user-item pair in an interaction. To address these issues, we develop a novel deep neural network with the co-attention mechanism for leveraging rich meta-path based context for top-N recommendation. We elaborately design a three-way neural interaction model by explicitly incorporating meta-path based context. To construct the meta-path based context, we propose to use a priority based sampling technique to select high-quality path instances. Our model is able to learn effective representations for users, items and meta-path based context for implementing a powerful interaction function. The co-attention mechanism improves the representations for meta-path based context, users and items in a mutual enhancement way. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed model. In particular, the proposed model performs well in the cold-start scenario and has potentially good interpretability for the recommendation results.", "reference_count": 43, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Shaohua Fan", "Junxiong Zhu", "Xiaotian Han", "Chuan Shi", "Linmei Hu", "Biyu Ma", "Yongliang Li"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 1, "title": "Metapath-guided Heterogeneous Graph Neural Network for Intent Recommendation", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["Recommender Systems", "Intent Recommendation", "Heterogeneous Information Network", "Graph Neural Network"], "journal": "Proceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "With the prevalence of mobile e-commerce nowadays, a new type of recommendation services, called intent recommendation, is widely used in many mobile e-commerce Apps, such as Taobao and Amazon. Different from traditional query recommendation and item recommendation, intent recommendation is to automatically recommend user intent according to user historical behaviors without any input when users open the App. Intent recommendation becomes very popular in the past two years, because of revealing user latent intents and avoiding tedious input in mobile phones. Existing methods used in industry usually need laboring feature engineering. Moreover, they only utilize attribute and statistic information of users and queries, and fail to take full advantage of rich interaction information in intent recommendation, which may result in limited performances. In this paper, we propose to model the complex objects and rich interactions in intent recommendation as a Heterogeneous Information Network. Furthermore, we present a novel Metapath-guided Embedding method for Intent Recommendation (called MEIRec). In order to fully utilize rich structural information, we design a metapath-guided heterogeneous Graph Neural Network to learn the embeddings of objects in intent recommendation. In addition, in order to alleviate huge learning parameters in embeddings, we propose a uniform term embedding mechanism, in which embeddings of objects are made up with the same term embedding space. Offline experiments on real large-scale data show the superior performance of the proposed MEIRec, compared to representative methods. Moreover, the results of online experiments on Taobao e-commerce platform show that MEIRec not only gains a performance improvement of 1.54% on CTR metric, but also attracts up to 2.66% of new users to search queries.", "reference_count": 24, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Jun Xu", "Xiangnan He", "Hang Li"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 11, "title": "Deep Learning for Matching in Search and Recommendation", "year": 2018, "keywords": ["Learning to match", "Deep learning", "Web search", "Recommender system"], "journal": "The 41st International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research & Development in Information Retrieval", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Matching is the key problem in both search and recommendation, that is to measure the relevance of a document to a query or the interest of a user on an item. Previously, machine learning methods have been exploited to address the problem, which learns a matching function from labeled data, also referred to as \"learning to match\". In recent years, deep learning has been successfully applied to matching and significant progresses have been made. Deep semantic matching models for search and neural collaborative filtering models for recommendatio are becoming the state-of-the-art technologies.The key to the success of the deep learning approach is its strong ability in learning of representations and generalization of matching patterns from raw data (e.g., queries, documents, users, and items, particularly in their raw forms). In this tutorial, we aim to give a comprehensive survey on recent progress in deep learning for matching in search and recommendation. Our tutorial is unique in that we try to give a unified view on search and recommendation. In this way, we expect researchers from the two fields can get deep understanding and accurate insight on the spaces, stimulate more ideas and discussions, and promote developments of technologies. The tutorial mainly consists of three parts. Firstly, we introduce the general problem of matching, which is fundamental in both search and recommendation. Secondly, we explain how traditional machine learning techniques are utilized to address the matching problem in search and recommendation. Lastly, we elaborate how deep learning can be effectively used to solve the matching problems in both tasks.", "reference_count": 35, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Chuan Shi", "Binbin Hu", "Wayne Xin Zhao", "Philip S. Yu"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 59, "title": "Heterogeneous Information Network Embedding for Recommendation", "year": 2018, "keywords": ["Heterogeneous information network", "Network embedding", "Matrix factorization", "Recommender system"], "journal": "IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "Due to the flexibility in modelling data heterogeneity, heterogeneous information network (HIN) has been adopted to characterize complex and heterogeneous auxiliary data in recommender systems, called HIN based recommendation. It is challenging to develop effective methods for HIN based recommendation in both extraction and exploitation of the information from HINs. Most of HIN based recommendation methods rely on path based similarity, which cannot fully mine latent structure features of users and items. In this paper, we propose a novel heterogeneous network embedding based approach for HIN based recommendation, called HERec. To embed HINs, we design a meta-path based random walk strategy to generate meaningful node sequences for network embedding. The learned node embeddings are first transformed by a set of fusion functions, and subsequently integrated into an extended matrix factorization (MF) model. The extended MF model together with fusion functions are jointly optimized for the rating prediction task. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the HERec model. Moreover, we show the capability of the HERec model for the cold-start problem, and reveal that the transformed embedding information from HINs can improve the recommendation performance.", "reference_count": 57, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Rianne van den Berg", "Thomas N. Kipf", "Max Welling"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 83, "title": "Graph Convolutional Matrix Completion", "year": 2017, "keywords": [""], "journal": "arXiv", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "We consider matrix completion for recommender systems from the point of view of link prediction on graphs. Interaction data such as movie ratings can be represented by a bipartite user-item graph with labeled edges denoting observed ratings. Building on recent progress in deep learning on graph-structured data, we propose a graph auto-encoder framework based on differentiable message passing on the bipartite interaction graph. Our model shows competitive performance on standard collaborative filtering benchmarks. In settings where complimentary feature information or structured data such as a social network is available, our framework outperforms recent state-of-the-art methods.", "reference_count": 32, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Chuan Shi", "Zhiqiang Zhan", "Yugan Ji", "Weipeng Wang", "Philiph S. Yu", "Zhiping Shi"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 4, "title": "SemRec: A Personalized Semantic Recommendation Method based on Weighted Heterogeneous Information Networks", "year": 2019, "keywords": ["heterogeneous information network", "recommendation", "similarity", "meta path"], "journal": "World Wide Web", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "In past few years, heterogeneous information network (HIN) analysis has received much attention, and HIN has seen many explorations in the field of data mining. Recommender system is composed of many object types, including users, movies, actors, and interest groups in movie recommendation, for example. It also has the rich relations among object types, which naturally constitutes a HIN. HIN has the comprehensive information integration and rich semantic information. Therefore, it is a promising tool to generate better recommendations. However, the attribute values on links are not considered in HINS. As a result, semantic relations among objects may not be captured by the widely used meta path in HIN, resulting from the existence of rating scores (usually ranging from 1 to 5) between users and items in recommender system. In this paper, we introduce the weighted HIN and weighted meta path concepts to subtly depict the path semantics through distinguishing different link attribute values. In addition, we develop a personalized recommendation method SemRec. It utilizes semantic path to estimate user rating scores on items. Setting meta paths allows SemRec integrates heterogeneous information flexibly. Furthermore it also helps to generate prioritized and personalized weights that represent user preferences on paths. We conduct experiments on three real datasets to show that SemRec can achieve better recommendation performance by flexible information integrating via weighted meta paths. Moreover, extensive experiments validate the benefits of weighted meta paths.", "reference_count": 40, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["Xiaotian Han", "Chuan Shi", "Senzhang Wang", "Philip S. Yu", "Li Song"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 15, "title": "Aspect-Level Deep Collaborative Filtering via Heterogeneous Information Networks", "year": 2018, "keywords": [""], "journal": "IJCAI", "ccfClass": "", "abstract": "Latent factor models have been widely used for recommendation. Most existing latent factor models mainly utilize the rating information between users and items, although some recently extended models add some auxiliary information to learn a unified latent factor between users and items. he unified latent factor only represents the latent features of users and items from the aspect of purchase history. However, the latent features of users and items may stem from different aspects, e.g., the brandaspect and category-aspect of items. In this paper, we propose a Neural network based Aspect-level Collaborative Filtering model (NeuACF) to exploit different aspect latent factors. Through modelling rich objects and relations in recommender system as a heterogeneous information network, NeuACF first extracts different aspect-level similarity matrices of users and items through different meta-paths and then feeds an elaborately designed deep neural network with these matrices to learn aspect-level latent factors. Finally, the aspect-level latent factors are effectively fused with an attention mechanism for the top-N recommendation. Extensive experiments on three real datasets show that NeuACF significantly outperforms both existing latent factor models and recent neural network models.", "reference_count": 26, "important": true}, {"DOI": "https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33015329", "author": ["\ufeffXiang Wang", "Dingxian Wang", "Canran Xu", "Xiangnan He", "Yixin Cao", "Tat-Seng Chua"], "month": 7, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 21, "title": "Explainable Reasoning over Knowledge Graphs for Recommendation", "year": 2019, "keywords": [""], "journal": "AAAI", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "Incorporating knowledge graph into recommender systems has attracted increasing attention in recent years. By exploring the interlinks within a knowledge graph, the connectivity between users and items can be discovered as paths, which provide rich and complementary information to user-item interactions. Such connectivity not only reveals the semantics of entities and relations, but also helps to comprehend a user\u2019s interest. However, existing efforts have not fully explored this connectivity to infer user preferences, especially in terms of modeling the sequential dependencies within and holistic semantics of a path.In this paper, we contribute a new model named Knowledgeaware Path Recurrent Network (KPRN) to exploit knowledge graph for recommendation. KPRN can generate path representations by composing the semantics of both entities and relations. By leveraging the sequential dependencies within a path, we allow effective reasoning on paths to infer the underlying rationale of a user-item interaction. Furthermore, we design a new weighted pooling operation to discriminate the strengths of different paths in connecting a user with an item, endowing our model with a certain level of explainability. We conduct extensive experiments on two datasets about movie and music, demonstrating significant improvements over state-of-the-art solutions Collaborative Knowledge Base Embedding and Neural Factorization Machine.", "reference_count": 32, "important": true}, {"DOI": "10.1145/3289600.3290975", "author": ["\ufeffFajie Yuan", "Alexandros Karatzoglou", "Ioannis Arapakis", "Joemon M Jose", "Xiangnan He"], "month": 2, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 19, "title": "A Simple Convolutional Generative Network for Next Item Recommendation", "year": 2019, "keywords": [""], "journal": "WSDM", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have been recently introduced in the domain of session-based next item recommendation. An ordered collection of past items the user has interacted with in a session (or sequence) are embedded into a 2-dimensional latent matrix, and treated as an image. The convolution and pooling operations are then applied to the mapped item embeddings. In this paper, we first examine the typical session-based CNN recommender and show that both the generative model and network architecture are suboptimal when modeling long-range dependencies in the item sequence. To address the issues, we introduce a simple, but very effective generative model that is capable of learning high-level representation from both short- and long-range item dependencies. The network architecture of the proposed model is formed of a stack of holed convolutional layers, which can efficiently increase the receptive fields without relying on the pooling operation. Another contribution is the effective use of residualblock structure in recommender systems, which can ease the optimization for much deeper networks. The proposed generative model attains state-of-the-art accuracy with less training time in the next item recommendation task. It accordingly can be used as a powerful recommendation baseline to beat in future, especially when there are long sequences of user feedback.", "reference_count": 34, "important": true}, {"DOI": "10.1145/3209978.3209981", "author": ["\ufeffXiangnan He", "Zhankui He", "Xiaoyu Du", "Tat-Seng Chua"], "month": 7, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 64, "title": "Adversarial Personalized Ranking for Recommendation", "year": 2018, "keywords": [""], "journal": "SIGIR", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "Item recommendation is a personalized ranking task. To this end, many recommender systems optimize models with pairwise ranking objectives, such as the Bayesian Personalized Ranking (BPR). Using matrix Factorization (MF) - the most widely used model in recommendation - as a demonstration, we show that optimizing it with BPR leads to a recommender model that is not robust. In particular, we find that the resultant model is highly vulnerable to adversarial perturbations on its model parameters, which implies the possibly large error in generalization. To enhance the robustness of a recommender model and thus improve its generalization performance, we propose a new optimization framework, namely Adversarial Personalized Ranking (APR). In short, our APR enhances the pairwise ranking method BPR by performing adversarial training. It can be interpreted as playing a minimax game, where the minimization of the BPR objective function meanwhile defends an adversary, which adds adversarial perturbations on model parameters to maximize the BPR objective function. To illustrate how it works, we implement APR on MF by adding adversarial perturbations on the embedding vectors of users and items. Extensive experiments on three public real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of APR - by optimizing MF with APR, it outperforms BPR with a relative improvement of 11.2% on average and achieves state-of-the-art performance for item recommendation. Our implementation is available at: \\urlhttps://github.com/hexiangnan/adversarial_personalized_ranking.", "reference_count": 41, "important": true}, {"DOI": "10.1145/3209978.3209998", "author": ["\ufeffDa Cao", "Xiangnan He", "Lianhai Miao", "Yahui An", "Chao Yang", "Richang Hong"], "month": 7, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 26, "title": "Attentive Group Recommendation", "year": 2018, "keywords": [""], "journal": "SIGIR", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "Due to the prevalence of group activities in people's daily life, recommending content to a group of users becomes an important task in many information systems. A fundamental problem in group recommendation is how to aggregate the preferences of group members to infer the decision of a group. Toward this end, we contribute a novel solution, namely AGREE (short for ''Attentive Group REcommEndation''), to address the preference aggregation problem by learning the aggregation strategy from data, which is based on the recent developments of attention network and neural collaborative filtering (NCF). Specifically, we adopt an attention mechanism to adapt the representation of a group, and learn the interaction between groups and items from data under the NCF framework. Moreover, since many group recommender systems also have abundant interactions of individual users on items, we further integrate the modeling of user-item interactions into our method. Through this way, we can reinforce the two tasks of recommending items for both groups and users. By experimenting on two real-world datasets, we demonstrate that our AGREE model not only improves the group recommendation performance but also enhances the recommendation for users, especially for cold-start users that have no historical interactions individually.", "reference_count": 40, "important": true}, {"DOI": "10.1145/3178876.3186146", "author": ["\ufeffWenhui Yu", "Huidi Zhang", "Xiangnan He", "Xu Chen", "Li Xiong", "Zheng Qin"], "month": 4, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 51, "title": "Aesthetic-based Clothing Recommendation", "year": 2018, "keywords": [""], "journal": "WWW", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "Recently, product images have gained increasing attention in clothing recommendation since the visual appearance of clothing products has a significant impact on consumers\u00bb decision. Most existing methods rely on conventional features to represent an image, such as the visual features extracted by convolutional neural networks (CNN features) and the scale-invariant feature transform algorithm (SIFT features), color histograms, and so on. Nevertheless, one important type of features, the aesthetic features, is seldom considered. It plays a vital role in clothing recommendation since a users\u00bb decision depends largely on whether the clothing is in line with her aesthetics, however the conventional image features cannot portray this directly. To bridge this gap, we propose to introduce the aesthetic information, which is highly relevant with user preference, into clothing recommender systems. To achieve this, we first present the aesthetic features extracted by a pre-trained neural network, which is a brain-inspired deep structure trained for the aesthetic assessment task. Considering that the aesthetic preference varies significantly from user to user and by time, we then propose a new tensor factorization model to incorporate the aesthetic features in a personalized manner. We conduct extensive experiments on real-world datasets, which demonstrate that our approach can capture the aesthetic preference of users and significantly outperform several state-of-the-art recommendation methods.", "reference_count": 45, "important": true}, {"DOI": "10.1145/3178876.3186066", "author": ["\ufeffXiang Wang", "Xiangnan He", "Fuli Feng", "Liqiang Nie", "Tat-Seng Chua"], "month": 4, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 63, "title": "TEM: Tree-enhanced Embedding Model for Explainable Recommendation", "year": 2018, "keywords": [""], "journal": "WWW", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "While collaborative filtering is the dominant technique in personalized recommendation, it models user-item interactions only and cannot provide concrete reasons for a recommendation. Meanwhile, the rich side information affiliated with user-item interactions (e.g., user demographics and item attributes), which provide valuable evidence that why a recommendation is suitable for a user, has not been fully explored in providing explanations.On the technical side, embedding-based methods, such as Wide&Deep and neural factorization machines, provide state-of-the-art recommendation performance. However, they work like a black-box, for which the reasons underlying a prediction cannot be explicitly presented. On the other hand, tree-based methods like decision trees predict by inferring decision rules from data. While being explainable, they cannot generalize to unseen feature interactions thus fail in collaborative filtering applications.In this work, we propose a novel solution named Tree-enhanced Embedding Method that combines the strengths of embedding-based and tree-based models. We first employ a tree-based model to learn explicit decision rules (aka. cross features) from the rich side information. We next design an embedding model that can incorporate explicit cross features and generalize to unseen cross features on user ID and item ID. At the core of our embedding method is an easy-to-interpret attention network, making the recommendation process fully transparent and explainable. We conduct experiments on two datasets of tourist attraction and restaurant recommendation, demonstrating the superior performance and explainability of our solution.", "reference_count": 49, "important": true}, {"DOI": "arXiv:1805.02232", "author": ["\ufeffHan Liu", "Xiangnan He", "Fuli Feng", "Liqiang Nie", "Rui Liu", "Hanwang Zhang"], "month": 5, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 10, "title": "Discrete Factorization Machines for Fast Feature-based Recommendation", "year": 2018, "keywords": [""], "journal": "IJCAI", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "User and item features of side information are cru\u0002cial for accurate recommendation. However, the large number of feature dimensions, e.g., usually larger than 107, results in expensive storage and computational cost. This prohibits fast recommen\u0002dation especially on mobile applications where the computational resource is very limited. In this pa\u0002per, we develop a generic feature-based recommen\u0002dation model, called Discrete Factorization Ma\u0002chine (DFM), for fast and accurate recommenda\u0002tion. DFM binarizes the real-valued model param\u0002eters (e.g., float32) of every feature embedding into binary codes (e.g., boolean), and thus supports effi-cient storage and fast user-item score computation. To avoid the severe quantization loss of the bina\u0002rization, we propose a convergent updating rule that resolves the challenging discrete optimization of DFM. Through extensive experiments on two real\u0002world datasets, we show that 1) DFM consistently outperforms state-of-the-art binarized recommen\u0002dation models, and 2) DFM shows very competi\u0002tive performance compared to its real-valued ver\u0002sion (FM), demonstrating the minimized quantiza\u0002tion loss.", "reference_count": 27, "important": true}, {"DOI": "10.1145/3077136.3080797", "author": ["\ufeffJingyuan Chen", "Hanwang Zhang", "Xiangnan He", "Liqiang Nie", "Wei Liu", "Tat-Seng Chua"], "month": 8, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 224, "title": "Attentive Collaborative Filtering: Multimedia Recommendation with Item- and Component-Level Attention", "year": 2017, "keywords": [""], "journal": "SIGIR", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "Multimedia content is dominating today's Web information. The nature of multimedia user-item interactions is 1/0 binary implicit feedback (e.g., photo likes, video views, song downloads, etc.), which can be collected at a larger scale with a much lower cost than explicit feedback (e.g., product ratings). However, the majority of existing collaborative filtering (CF) systems are not well-designed for multimedia recommendation, since they ignore the implicitness in users' interactions with multimedia content. We argue that, in multimedia recommendation, there exists item- and component-level implicitness which blurs the underlying users' preferences. The item-level implicitness means that users' preferences on items (e.g. photos, videos, songs, etc.) are unknown, while the component-level implicitness means that inside each item users' preferences on different components (e.g. regions in an image, frames of a video, etc.) are unknown. For example, a 'view'' on a video does not provide any specific information about how the user likes the video (i.e.item-level) and which parts of the video the user is interested in (i.e.component-level). In this paper, we introduce a novel attention mechanism in CF to address the challenging item- and component-level implicit feedback in multimedia recommendation, dubbed Attentive Collaborative Filtering (ACF). Specifically, our attention model is a neural network that consists of two attention modules: the component-level attention module, starting from any content feature extraction network (e.g. CNN for images/videos), which learns to select informative components of multimedia items, and the item-level attention module, which learns to score the item preferences. ACF can be seamlessly incorporated into classic CF models with implicit feedback, such as BPR and SVD++, and efficiently trained using SGD. Through extensive experiments on two real-world multimedia Web services: Vine and Pinterest, we show that ACF significantly outperforms state-of-the-art CF methods.", "reference_count": 46, "important": true}, {"DOI": "10.1109/TKDE.2018.2831682", "author": ["\ufeffXiangnan He", "Zhankui He", "Jingkuan Song", "Zhenguang Liu", "Yu-Gang Jiang", "Tat-Seng Chua"], "month": 12, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 66, "title": "NAIS: Neural Attentive Item Similarity Model for Recommendation", "year": 2018, "keywords": [""], "journal": "TKDE", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "Item-to-item collaborative filtering (aka.item-based CF) has been long used for building recommender systems in industrial settings, owing to its interpretability and efficiency in real-time personalization. It builds a user's profile as her historically interacted items, recommending new items that are similar to the user's profile. As such, the key to an item-based CF method is in the estimation of item similarities. Early approaches use statistical measures such as cosine similarity and Pearson coefficient to estimate item similarities, which are less accurate since they lack tailored optimization for the recommendation task. In recent years, several works attempt to learn item similarities from data, by expressing the similarity as an underlying model and estimating model parameters by optimizing a recommendation-aware objective function. While extensive efforts have been made to use shallow linear models for learning item similarities, there has been relatively less work exploring nonlinear neural network models for item-based CF. In this work, we propose a neural network model named Neural Attentive Item Similarity model (NAIS) for item-based CF. The key to our design of NAIS is an attention network, which is capable of distinguishing which historical items in a user profile are more important for a prediction. Compared to the state-of-the-art item-based CF method Factored Item Similarity Model (FISM) [1] , our NAIS has stronger representation power with only a few additional parameters brought by the attention network. Extensive experiments on two public benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of NAIS. This work is the first attempt that designs neural network models for item-based CF, opening up new research possibilities for future developments of neural recommender systems.", "reference_count": 45, "important": true}, {"DOI": "", "author": ["\ufeffHao Wang", "Xingjian Shi", "Dit-Yan Yeung"], "month": 0, "references": [], "citations(google scholar)": 52, "title": "Collaborative Recurrent Autoencoder: Recommend while Learning to Fill in the Blanks", "year": 2016, "keywords": [""], "journal": "NIPS", "ccfClass": "A", "abstract": "Hybrid methods that utilize both content and rating information are commonly used in many recommender systems. However, most of them use either handcrafted features or the bag-of-words representation as a surrogate for the content information but they are neither effective nor natural enough. To address this problem, we develop a collaborative recurrent autoencoder (CRAE) which is a denoising recurrent autoencoder (DRAE) that models the generation of content sequences in the collaborative filtering (CF) setting. The model generalizes recent advances in recurrent deep learning from i.i.d. input to non-i.i.d. (CF-based) input and provides a new denoising scheme along with a novel learnable pooling scheme for the recurrent autoencoder. To do this, we first develop a hierarchical Bayesian model for the DRAE and then generalize it to the CF setting. The synergy between denoising and CF enables CRAE to make accurate recommendations while learning to fill in the blanks in sequences. Experiments on real-world datasets from different domains (CiteULike and Netflix) show that, by jointly modeling the order-aware generation of sequences for the content information and performing CF for the ratings, CRAE is able to significantly outperform the state of the art on both the recommendation task based on ratings and the sequence generation task based on content information.", "reference_count": 25, "important": true}]